well down the line fruit comes from the
dandelion flower most seeds travel about
two meters in the parent plant but there
have been reports of these parachuting
fruit in get carried over 100 meters and
her even reports of him getting carried
over vast swathe cease to like 150
kilometers so it's unpowered flight
getting incredible distances each down
the line fruit is made up of a seed
connected to a feathery drag enhancing
purpose our partial which calls a
purpose if you look down on top of the
parcel from above its 90% empty space
between filaments does a thick boundary
layer and it effectively prevents air
from penetrating through the parachute
and so it turns to fluid around a
parachute and it dis generates this
vortex of flow above the down the line
which kind of just sits above it like a
little halo and this low-pressure zone
enhances the drag coefficient of the
dandelion the amount of drag that it can
generate per unit area of material it's
quadruple that of what this could be and
when I say a disc I mean that's what how
we design parachutes we design
impermeable surfaces if you gave
evolution like materials that's gave
build me a parachute and it built a disc
and the only would it fall twice as fast
at the dandelion which is a bad thing
because it's from a stay up in the air
for as long as possible but also the
wake that it would generate with that
material is a it would be unstable
whereas the dandelion not only does it
get more drag it also stabilizes awake
so it's kind of like it's reaching kind
of sweet spot in the design space
parachutes have been around for quite a
while now and
it were pretty good at designer prices
for human flight it's just when you then
take those principles and then try to
miniaturize them down they don't quite
apply because things are being
miniaturized all the time and especially
flight if you said okay make me a
parachute and you got to some sort of
fabric and use that you you wouldn't
have an optimum solution
evolution has done all the hard work for
us so you know what why not just use
that I investigated turbulent flows with
the aim of controlling their behavior in
my particular case that the process goes
through numerical simulation we use
massive large and simulation of darin
america simulation of turbulent flow but
those are very expensive procedures
those for simulation because they might
take even months or even years we are
looking also at flow over canopies
flower canopies are very important for
the physical clothes because people
wants to understand how vegetation
intake oxygen and nutrient imaging a set
of put peak clamp toner on a wall above
those toothpicks there is a complex flow
we are discovering that the transport of
scullers towards the canopy and out of
the cap is covered by some very large
voltages which are living on the top of
the canopy and the edge of the cap this
makes me missus believe that probably
you can design a can for example say
that you have a canal you have a river
you can actually design the type of
vegetation on how to see that vegetation
to obtain certain certain effects
because of the low density in the
Martian atmosphere a Reynolds number
associated with flying on Mars is much
lower than on earth and the changes
physics completely if the density is
1/100 that of Earth's we get a lift
force that's 1/100 than what you need
but it seems that the Mars atmosphere is
uniquely suited for bio-inspired
flatteringly motions
we took of a movie which flaps at 150
Hertz one of the nice things about
insect flight is that they can
but also afford and perform agile
maneuvers so it's not that we can simply
take insect motion and play it on Mars
we have to be really smart about how we
dynamically skill morphology and also in
kinematics we work in a computational
group and we not only lifting forces on
the wings and this is coupled to a
flight dynamics solver which models the
wing and body interaction and the
reduced gravity and eventually we also
want to experimentally validate this in
our vacuum chamber
it's it's definitely possible and we
would like to get this done as soon as
possible to maybe aid in the human
exploration of Mars
you